Name:
Anchor Bar Hot Wings
Type:
Appetizers
Country:
USA
Author:
G.SCHAEFFER
Ingredients:
Chicken wings 
Read below 
Instructions:
 Wash the wings in cold water, split them at the joint and remove the tips. Place them on a rack on a pan and refrigerate overnight to let the blood and water drain out of the wings. THIS IS A REAL KEY. Drying the wings under refrigeration will help to make them a much crispier product, once deep fried. Next, use a deep fryer or a very heavy deep pot with a thermometer and add the oil. Peanut oil is very good, or a commercial product such as can be found at a restaurant cash and carry called Mel Fry. Heat the oil up SLOWLY, to 365F, and depending on the size of the fryer, deep fry the dry wings 6-8 minutes in small batches, until thoroughly done and golden brown. Hold the cooked wings in a warm oven if necessary. A combination of melted margarine and hot sauce in the ratio of 1 part margarine to 3 parts hot sauce will add the right zing. The key here is to add just enough sauce to coat the wings - the more sauce you add, the hotter they will be. For the very brave, 1 part margarine to 3 parts hot sauce and 1 part Tabasco is referred to as "Suicidal Wings" by the late and dear Don Bellissimo, who owned the Anchor Bar. Working quickly, place the deep fried wings in a large bowl and add the sauce mixture, shaking to coat them. There are many good hot sauces to use; the one they use is either Durkee Franks Red Hot Sauce or Wingers Original, again found in a restaurant cash and carry. Celery sticks and chunky blue cheese dressing (Ken's Buffalo Style Blue Cheese is a popular one) and plenty of napkins. 

Serves:
12
Notes:
The key to good Buffalo Wings is how you prepare them as well as the ingredients and the handling of the wings. The most successful wings served up here in Buffalo are what they call "Grade A Grinders." Fresh wings that are very large and meaty. Usually, you cannot get them in a frozen package, but can get them from a poultry dealer. Once you find them make sure they are absolutely fresh
