Name:
Anginares Me Anitho - Artichokes with Dill
Type:
Appetizers
Country:
Greece
Author:
The Complete Middle East Cookbook" by Tess Mallos
Ingredients:
Karen Mintzias 
12 md Globe artichokes 
1 Lemon (juice only) 
Lemon slices 
3 tb Flour (optional) 
1/2 c Chopped scallinos,white only 
1/4 c Olive or other oil 
1 Lemon (juice only) 
3 c Water 
Salt 
Freshly ground white pepper 
2 tb Finely chopped dill 
3 ts Cornflour 
Cold water 
2 Eggs 
Chopped dill for garnish 
Instructions:
Serves: 4 as a light meal, 8 as a first course Cooking time: 45-50 minutes 
Wash artichokes well and cut off stem close to base. Have ready a bowl of cold water with the juice of 1 lemon and some lemon slices added. If desired stir in 2-3 tablespoons flour as this is quite effective in preventing discoloration. 
As each artichoke is prepared, rub cut surfaces with a lemon slice from the bowl and place in bowl until all are prepared. Cook as soon as possible after preparation. 
Remove 3 or 4 layers of leaves until the tender inner leaves remain. Scoop out choke and pink thorny leaves from centre, using a spoon or melon ball scoop. Cut in half. 
In a large pan gently fry spring onion in oil until soft. Add juice of 1/2 lemon, water, about 2 teaspoons salt and a good grinding of pepper. Bring to the boil. 
Drain prepared artichokes and add to pan with dill. Return to a slow simmer, cover and simmer gently for 30 minutes or until artichokes are tender. Stain cooking liquid into a pan and boil until reduced to half original quantity (about 1-1/2 cups). Keep artichokes hot in a slow oven. 
Mix cornflour to a paste with a little cold water and stir into simmering liquid. Stir until thickened and bubbling and leave to simmer gently. 
Beat eggs in a mixing bowl until light and frothy and gradually add remaining lemon juice. Gradually pour in simmering stock, beating constantly. Return to pan and stir over low heat for a minute or 2 to cook the egg. 
Pile artichokes on a warm platter, pour sauce on top and sprinkle with chopped dill. Serve as a light meal or as a first course. 


Serves:
8
Notes:
From: "The Complete Middle East Cookbook" by Tess Mallos. ISBN: 1 86302 069 1 
Typed for you by Karen Mintzias 
