Name:
Aunt Julia's Paella
Type:
Poultry
Country:
Spain
Author:
Chiqui Collier, Cookery N'Orleans Restaurant 
Ingredients:
1 Chicken, cut up (Or 4 thighs and legs) 
Salt and pepper to thaste 
1 lb Lean pork, cut into 1-inch cubes 
1 md Onion, minced 
2 Toes garlic, minced 

Cut into 1 1/2 inch julliene strips: 
1/2 lg Bell pepper 
1 lg Carrot 
1 Stalk celery 
1 c Frozen green peas 
1 1/2 lb Peeled shrimp 
1 3/4 oz Jar sliced pimento 
2 ts Capers, with juice 
4 oz Jar pimento-stiffed green olives 
1/2 lb Calamari (squid), cleaned and sliced 
5 c Water 
4 Chicken bouillon cubes 
1 ts Saffron threads 
2 1/2 c Uncle Ben's (c) rice, uncooked 
3 Hard boiled eggs, sliced 
1/2 lb Unpeeled shrimp (heads on) 
Oil for frying 
Instructions:
In a large electric skillet or paella pan, brown the chicken pieces (that have been seasoned with salt and pepper) in a little oil. Remove from the pan. Add the pork cubes to the drippinfs and brown for about 5 minutes. Remove from the pan. To the pan drippings (add a little more oil if necessary) add the onion, garlic, bell pepper, celery and carrot. Stir-fry for 2 minutes. 
Add the peas, peeled shrimp, pimentos, capers, chicken, calamari and pork. Stir. In a separate pot, bring the 5 cups of water to a boil; stir in the bouillon cubes and saffron. Let it stand for 5 minutes until dissolved. 
Gently stir the rice into the skillet mixture. Slowly pour in enough of the bouillon mixture to cover the rice and chicken pieces. Cover and cook over low heat for about 20 minutes. Uncover and decoaratively arrange the egg slices and raw unpeeled shrimp on the top. (Add more broth as necessary to keep the rice moist. 
Cover and steam for another 10 minutes until the shrimp are cooked and the rice is tender. (Paella should be moist but not wet!) Place the pan on a hot pad on the serving table and let everyone help themselves. 
Serve with a mixed green salad, red ripe tomatoes and some French bread. Also mix up a pitcher of Sangria and enjoy! 
Serves:
6
Notes:
null
