Name:
Beef with Ginger and Onions
Type:
Beef
Country:
China
Author:
Marian Russell
Ingredients:
450 grams	beef (use a good cut like filet, which has no gristle or 
fat)
1 tsp.		salt
1/8 tsp.	pepper (or to taste)
1 1/2 Tbsp.	corn flour
1		egg white
2 large		onions, sliced into thin rings
1 Tbsp.		ginger, grated fine
    ---------------      
1 Tbsp.		sugar
3 Tbsp.		water
2 Tbsp.		soy sauce
    ---------------
2 tsp.		corn flour
2 Tbsp.		water
2 Tbsp.		sherry, medium dry
    ---------------
1/4 cup 	sesame oil
2 Tbsp.		vegetable shortening



Instructions:
1)  Cut the beef into thin strips (approx. 1 1/2 to 2 inches x 3/16-inch).  I find it easiest to first slice the beef into 3/16-inch layers, and then slice the layers into 3/16-inch wides strips, and then if the strips are too long, slice the strips in half (or thirds).  Put the beef strips into a bowl.

2)  Mix the salt and pepper together in a small bowl and then sprinkle this over the beef strips and mix well.  Add the first amount of corn flour (1 1/2 Tbsp.) and mix well.  Add the egg white and mix well.  Set the bowl by your stove in position 1.

3)  Put the sliced onions and grated ginger in a bowl together in position 2 by your stove.

4)  Mix the sugar, soy sauce and 3 Tbsp. of water together in a small bowl or cup and place in position 3 by your stove.

5)  Mix the 2 tsp. corn flour, the sherry and 2 Tbsp. of water in a small bowl or cup and place in position 4 by your stove.

6)  Heat the sesame oil in a large frying pan or wok over high heat.  When hot, stir-fry the beef for 1 1/2 minutes.  Take the pan from the heat while you remove the beef from the pan into a clean bowl.  Put this bowl between the soy sauce bowl and the sherry bowl.

7)  Return your pan to the heat and add the vegetable shortening.  When melted, stir fry the onions and ginger until the onions are tender.  (This is a tricky part, because you don't want to overcook the onions and yet you don't want to undercook them either.  I would say 5 minutes is about the maximum time, but be careful.  They should lose their hard round shape.  Taste them if you're not sure.  Cook them until they are no longer sharp.).

8)  Add the soy sauce mixture and mix well.

9)  Return the beef to the pan and mix well.

10)  Add the sherry mixture to the pan and mix well for about 1/2 a minute.

Serve with white rice.
Serves:
0
Notes:
This recipe is really easy to make and my kids (1 1/2 years and 3 1/2 
years old) really love it, especially the onions!  It is adapted from a 
recipe in Kenneth Lo's "New Chinese Cookery Course", a book I highly 
recommend.
