Name:
Burger King®Breakfast Sandwiches
Type:
Sandwich
Country:
USA
Author:
Todd Wilbur
Ingredients:
Biscuit Sandwich
1 small can (5 biscuits) Pillsbury Grands Buttermilk Biscuits  
melted butter
Non-stick cooking spray
5 eggs
salt
ground black pepper
10 ounces ground breakfast sausage (such as Jimmy Dean) or 10 slices of bacon 
5 slices American cheese
Instructions:
1. Prepare biscuits following instructions on the can (bake at 350 degrees for 15 to 18 minutes). When you remove the biscuits from the oven brush the top of each with melted butter.  
2. Spray a skillet over medium heat with non-stick cooking spray. Open both ends of a clean, small, sliced pineapple can. Spray the inside of the empty can with the non-stick spray, and then place the can in the pan to heat up. Use more than one can if you'd like to speed up the cooking process.
3. Beat an egg, then pour it into the empty can mold, add a bit of salt and pepper, and cover with a saucepan lid. Cook for a couple minutes, then scrape a knife around the edge of the egg to release it. Remove the can, then turn the egg over and cook it for another minute or two. Repeat with the remaining eggs. 
4. If using sausage, form 2-ounce portions of sausage into patties with the same diameter as the biscuits. Cook the sausage in another hot skillet over medium heat until brown. If using bacon, cook the bacon and drain on paper towels.  
5. Slice a biscuit in half through the middle. Build each sandwich by first stacking egg on the bottom half of the biscuit. Next arrange sausage (or 2 slices of bacon) on the egg, then a slice of American cheese. Top off each sandwich with the top biscuit half, then zap it in the microwave for 15 to 20 seconds to help melt the cheese. Repeat with the remaining ingredients. 
Serves:
5
Notes:
You can have your eggs and sausage and biscuits sitting next to each other on the plate like all the traditional folks out there, or you can get vertical with this top secret breakfast-in-sandwich from the world's number two fast food chain.  And if you prefer a croissant to a biscuit, I've got that version for you, too (along with the special way to get bigger, circular croissants).  A great way to make the eggs for these breakfast sandwiches is to pour the beaten egg into a well-greased mold made from an empty pineapple can.  Just cut both ends off an 8-ounce pineapple can - you know, the short cans that have crushed or sliced pineapple inside.  Oh, and take the pineapple out.  Then, before you know it, you'll be making perfectly round eggs like the fast food pros. 
