Name:
Chicken Enchilada Soup
Type:
Soups
Country:
USA
Author:
Todd Wilbur
Ingredients:
1 tablespoon vegetable oil
1 lb. of chicken breast fillets (approx. 3 fillets)
1/2 cup diced onion
1 clove garlic, pressed
4 cups chicken broth
1 cup masa harina
3 cups water
1 cup enchilada sauce
16 ounces Velveeta
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon chili powder
1/2 teaspoon cumin

Garnish
shredded cheddar cheese
crumbled corn tortilla chips
pico de gallo (from recipe for Chili's Nacho Burger)


Instructions:
1. Add 1 tablespoon of oil to a large pot over medium heat. Add chicken breasts to pot and brown for 4-5 minutes per side. Set chicken aside.
2. Add onions and garlic to pot and sauté over medium heat for about 2 minutes, or until onions begin to become translucent. Add chicken broth.
3. Combine masa harina with 2 cups of water in a medium bowl and whisk until blended. Add masa mixture to pot with onions, garlic and broth.
4. Add remaining water, enchilada sauce, cheese and spices to pot and bring mixture to a boil.
5. Shred the chicken into small, bite-size pieces and add it to the pot. Reduce heat and simmer soup for 30-40 minutes or until thick.
6. Serve soup in cups or bowls, and garnish with shredded cheddar cheese, crumbled corn tortilla chips, and pico de gallo.
Serves:
12
Notes:
It's an item that you won't even find on the current menu at this national restaurant chain. But ask your server what soups are available and this is a selection that's available every day of the week. The dish is one of Chili's most raved-about items, and a recipe to clone the delicious soup is easily one of the most requested here on the Internet. Looks like it's time for an official TSR custom clone to answer those many requests. The secret here is the addition of masa harina -- a corn flour that you will find in your supermarket near the other flours, or in the Mexican food section. You'll find the recipe for the pico de gallo garnish in the Chili's Nacho Burger clone recipe from last November. Enjoy, amigos!
