Name:
Chocolate Chip Paradise Pie
Type:
Deserts
Country:
USA
Author:
Todd Wilbur
Ingredients:
Cookie Layer
1 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 cup butter (1 stick), softened
1/3 cup granulated sugar
1 egg
1 tablespoon milk
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup shredded coconut

Crust Layer
6 tablespoons butter
1/4 cup sugar
1 1/2 cups graham cracker crumbs

1 1/4 cups semi-sweet chocolate chips
1/2 cup chopped walnuts
 


 

Cinnamon Butter
1/2 cup butter (1 stick), softened
3 tablespoons granulated sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons cinnamon

9 scoops vanilla ice cream 
chocolate syrup
caramel syrup
6 tablespoons chopped walnuts
Instructions:
1. Preheat the oven to 325 degrees.
2. Combine the flour, baking soda and baking powder in a medium bowl.
3. In a separate large bowl, beat together the butter and sugar with an electric mixer. Continue beating for about 30 seconds or until mixture turns lighter in color. Add the egg, milk, and vanilla and beat until smooth.
4. Slowly mix the dry mixture into the wet mixture. Beat until well-combined and then mix in the coconut flakes. Set this cookie dough aside for now.
5. Melt 6 tablespoons of butter in a medium bowl in the microwave on high temperature for about 30 seconds. Add the sugar and stir well for 30 seconds. Add the graham cracker crumbs and stir. Press this mixture into the bottom of a 9x9-inch baking dish or pan.
6. Sprinkle the cup of chocolate chips evenly over the graham cracker crust.
7. Press the cookie dough into the dish, covering the chocolate chips. Use flour on your fingers to keep the soft dough from sticking.
8. Sprinkle the chopped walnuts over the dough. Use your fingers to press the nuts into the dough.
9. Bake for 40-45 minutes or until the edges of the pie become light brown.
10. Prepare the cinnamon butter by creaming together the butter, sugar and cinnamon in a small bowl with an electric mixer on high speed.
11. When you are ready to make your dessert, heat up a small skillet over medium heat. When the skillet is hot, remove it from the heat then add about 1 tablespoon of the cinnamon butter to the pan. It should quickly melt and sizzle. Slice the pie into 9 pieces and place one into the hot skillet. If the pie has cooled, you can reheat each slice by zapping it in the microwave for 30-40 seconds.
12. Place a scoop of ice cream on top of the pie. Drizzle chocolate and caramel syrup over the dessert and then sprinkle about 2 teaspoons of chopped walnuts over the top. Repeat for the remaining ingredients and serve sizzling in the skillet. 
Serves:
9
Notes:
What makes this dessert so special is the way it comes to your table sizzling in a cast iron skillet. Just like fajitas. The chocolate chip cookie and graham cracker crust "pie" is topped with a scoop of vanilla ice cream, and then drizzled with chocolate and caramel syrup. It's all served up in a hot skillet of cinnamon butter. Yum! If you want to prepare this one just like they do at the restaurant, you'll need one of those skillets for each serving. Small iron skillets work the best, but any 6 or 8-inch frying pan will do fine. You just have to be sure your pan is super hot to get that authentic Chili's "sizzle." If you don't have enough of the right pans for each serving, you can slide it all onto a plate. It may not have the sizzle of the real thing, but it'll still taste awesome! 
