Name:
Curried Chicken with Apples and Bananas
Type:
Poultry
Country:
Canada
Author:
Canadian Living Magazine
Ingredients:
2 tbsp vegetable oil, divided 
3 pounds chicken, skinned and cut into 6 pieces or 6 bone-in skinless breasts or legs 
1 large onion, chopped, about 1 cup 
3 garlic cloves, minced, about 1 tbsp 
1 tart apple, such as Granny Smith, peeled and diced, about 1 cup 
2 medium-size bananas, chopped, about 1 1/2 cups 
1 large tomato, diced, about 1 1/2 cups 
2 tablespoons mild or medium curry powder or 1 tbsp (15 mL) hot curry powder 
2 teaspoons turmeric 
1/2 teaspoon each of ground cumin and ground coriander 
1 cup low-sodium diluted chicken broth or chicken stock 
1 cup plain yogurt, preferably low fat 
1 tablespoons all-purpose flour 
  Salt to taste 

Instructions:
1. In a very large saucepan or Dutch oven, heat 1 tablespoon oil over medium-high heat. Add half of chicken pieces and cook, turning once, until brown, about 3 minutes per side. Remove to a large plate. Repeat with remaining oil and chicken. Remove all chicken and set aside.

2. Reduce heat to medium. Add onion and garlic. Cook, stirring occasionally, until onion is soft, about 5 minutes. Meanwhile, prepare apple, bananas and tomato.

3. Sprinkle onion with curry powder, turmeric, cumin and coriander. Saute, stirring constantly, for 1 minute. Add apple, bananas, tomato and broth. Bring to a boil, scraping up brown bits from bottom of pan.

4. Reduce heat to medium and simmer, uncovered and stirring frequently, until liquid is reduced by about half, from 5 to 10 minutes. Return chicken and any juices to pan and simmer, covered but stirring occasionally, until juices run clear when chicken is pierced with a fork, about 30 minutes.

5. Stir yogurt with flour until smooth. Stir into chicken mixture. To blend flavours, simmer, uncovered and stirring occasionally, for 15 minutes. Taste and add salt, if you like. Tightly covered, this dish will keep well in the refrigerator for up to 2 days.

Serves:
0
Notes:
null
