Name:
Low-Fat Asian Chicken Salad
Type:
Salads
Country:
USA
Author:
Todd Wilbur
Ingredients:
1 cup teriyaki marinade 
4 chicken breast fillets 
Fat-Free Asian Dressing 
2 cups water 
1/2 cup granulated sugar 
3 tablespoons dry pectin 
1 tablespoon white vinegar 
1/2 teaspoon soy sauce 
1 teaspoon salt 
1/4 teaspoon garlic powder 
1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 
1/4 teaspoon paprika 
8 cups chopped romaine lettuce 
8 cups chopped iceberg lettuce 
3 cups shredded red cabbage 
3 cups shredded green cabbage 
2 cups shredded carrots 
1 cup chopped green onion 
1 1/3 cups crispy chow mein noodles   
Instructions:
1. Combine teriyaki marinade and chicken breasts in a medium bowl or resealable plastic bag. Marinate chicken for 3-4 hours. 
2. Prepare the dressing by combining all of the ingredients in a small saucepan over medium heat. Bring mixture to a rolling boil while stirring often with a whisk, then remove the pan from the heat to cool. When dressing has cooled, pour it into a covered container and chill. 
3. When chicken breasts have marinated, preheat barbecue grill to high heat. Grill chicken for 3-4 minutes per side, or until done. 
4. Combine the romaine and iceberg lettuce, red and green cabbage and 1 cup of shredded carrots in a large bowl with the dressing. Toss well. 
5. Divide the tossed greens among four plates. Sprinkle 1/4 cup of green onions over each salad, followed by 1/3 cup of crispy chow mein noodles. 
6. When the chicken breasts are done, slice each one, widthwise, into bite-size pieces. Sprinkle the sliced chicken breasts over each salad. 
7. Place a 1/4 cup pile of shredded carrots in the center of each salad. 

Nutrition Facts 
Serving size 1 salad
Total servings  4
Fat (per serving)  12g
Calories (per serving)  575

Serves:
0
Notes:
As the seasons change so does the menu, at this popular 1064-unit casual restaurant chain. You’ll find this item in the “Low-Fat and Fabulous” column during the summer months where it’s been a favorite since 1997. As with any salad, the waistline violator is the traditionally fat-filled dressing that’s drizzled in gobs over the top of very healthy greens (a tablespoon of dressing is usually around 10-12 grams of fat each). So if we can just figure out a cool way to make the dressing fat-free, we’re well on our way to making huge salad – four of them to be exact – with only 12 grams of fat on the entire plate. Most of those grams come from the chicken breast, while the crunchy chow mein noodles pick up the rest. Just be sure to plan ahead when you make this one. The chicken should marinate for a few hours if you want it to taste like the original. Get ready for some big, meal-size salads.  
