Name:
Mango and banana spring rolls
Type:
Deserts
Country:
USA
Author:
http://recipes.chatelaine.com/
Ingredients:
    4 cups ( 1 L) vegetable oil for frying 
    1/3 cup ( 75 mL) granulated sugar  
    1 large mango, ripe but firm  
    1 large banana, ripe but firm  
    1/2 cup ( 125 mL) shredded sweetened coconut 
    2 tbsp ( 30 mL) each of granulated and brown sugar 
    generous pinches of ground ginger 
    12 spring roll wrappers 
    1 egg white, lightly beaten 
    dusting of icing sugar 
    1 cup ( 250 mL) mango purée (see below)  
    dollop of coconut or ginger ice cream (optional) 
    2 kiwis, peeled and sliced (optional) 

Instructions:
1. Pour enough oil into a medium-size deep frying pan to reach at least 2 inches (5 cm) in depth, but no more than one-third up side of pan. Place 1/3 cup (75 mL) granulated sugar in a shallow dish. Line a baking sheet with paper towels. 

2. For 2 different fillings, peel mango and slice fruit from pit. Slice flesh into matchstick-size pieces. Place in a medium-size bowl. Peel banana and slice into matchstick-size pieces. Place in a separate bowl. Add 1/4 cup (50 mL) coconut and 1 tablespoon (15 mL) each of granulated and brown sugar to each filling. Stir ginger into mango filling, tasting and adding a little more, if you like, and cinnamon into banana filling. 

3. Place 6 spring roll wrappers on a counter. Cover remaining with a damp cloth. Dividing mixture equally, spoon mango filling onto 1 top corner of each wrapper. Tightly roll corner toward centre to partially enclose filling. Once you reach centre, fold in sides to cover filling. Continue tightly rolling up wrapper to form a small log. To seal, brush seam with egg white. Repeat with banana filling and remaining wrappers. 

4. To fry rolls, place pan with oil over medium-high heat and heat to 350F (180C). Carefully slip 2 to 3 rolls into hot oil. Don’t overcrowd. Fry, turning once or twice until golden brown, from 2 to 3 minutes. Once browned, immediately remove rolls to paper towel-lined sheet. Blot dry, then immediately roll in granulated sugar until lightly coated. Place on a tray. Repeat with remaining spring rolls. 

5. To serve, slice a warm mango spring roll in half on the diagonal. Place a whole banana spring roll on a dessert plate. Set a half of mango roll on its end beside banana roll. Place other half on banana roll. Sift a little icing sugar overtop. Drizzle mango purée around rolls. Add a scoop of ice cream and a few slices of kiwi, if you like. Repeat with remaining spring rolls. 

6. Mango Purée: Purée pulp of 1 mango in a food processor with 1/4 cup (50 mL) water. Add lime juice or sugar to taste. If too thick, thin with water. 

Nutrients per 2 spring rolls 
3.0 g protein, 1.0 mg iron, 7.8 g fat, 25.0 mg calcium, 51.7 g carbohydrates, 2.7 g fibre, 124.0 mg sodium, 277.0 calories. 
Serves:
6
Notes:
These delightful crisp rolls from chef Keith Froggett are served at Toronto’s Scaramouche restaurant with a drizzle of tropical fruit purée. 
