Name:
Mee Krob
Type:
Poultry
Country:
Thailand
Author:
Morten
Ingredients:
1 2-in piece of tamarind pulp 
Peanut or corn oil (for deep-frying) 
1/4 lb Dried rice stick noodles 
6 oz Med shrimp shelled and deveined 
1 Whole boned chicken breast cut into slices 
4 Shallots; minced 
1 tb Minced garlic 
2 sm Serrano chiles finely minced 
1 Lime (zest only) 
3 1/2 tb Tomato paste 
4 tb Sugar 
1/4 c Thai fish sauce (nam pla) 
3 tb Fresh lime juice 
4 Green onions; trimmed, cut into 1-in lengths blanched 
3 tb Fresh coriander leaves 
1/2 lb Bean sprouts; tails removed (for garnish) 

CRISPY EGG LACE: 
Oil for deep-frying 
2 Eggs; lightly beaten 
1/4 ts Salt 


Instructions:
COVER TAMARIND WITH 3/4 CUP hot water. Crush and break up pulp with a fork and let it stand for 20 minutes. Pour mixture through a strainer and press it through. Collect 1/2 cup tamarind liquid. Pour oil into a wok or deep saucepan to a depth of about 2-inches. Heat oil to 375F. In a large paper bag pull rice stick noodles apart into small batches. Add 1 batch to the oil. If the temperature is correct, noodles should puff up within seconds. Remove with a slotted spoon or strainer and drain on paper towel. Repeat with remaining noodles. If you are making the Crispy Egg Lace, prepare it at this time (See below). When the rice stick noodles and egg lace are done, pour off all but 2 tablespoons of oil from wok. Reheat wok and oil over medium-high heat. When hot, add shrimp and chicken; stir-fry for 1 minute or until shrimp are bright orange and chicken is white. Remove and set aside. Add shallots, garlic, minced chiles and half the lime zest to the hot wok; stir-fry until soft, but not browned (about 1 minute). Add tomato paste and sugar. Cook, stirring constantly, until sugar becomes a dark crimson red with a sticky consistency. It should pull away from the wok into a thick mass. This is just short of the caramelized state (about 3 to 4 minutes). Be careful not to burn the mixture. Immediately add the reserved tamarind liquid and fish sauce, reduce to low heat and simmer together for 1 minute. Add lime juice, reserved chicken-shrimp mixture, green onion and remaining lime zest; toss just enough to heat through. Remove from heat. Add 1/3 of fried rice stick noodles to the sauce. Gently crush noodles and toss with sauce to coat. Repeat with another third of noodles. Add last third of noodles only if there is enough sauce to coat. Toss in the coriander leaves. Mound noodles on a platter, Crispy Egg Lace (broken into smaller pieces) and bean sprouts. 

CRISPY EGG LACE: After frying noodles, skim leftover bits from wok. Keep oil hot. Beat eggs with salt in bowl. When oil is 375F, hold a medium-fine-mesh skimmer over oil; gently pour half the eggs through. Let eggs drip into oil in circular fashion. Deep-fry for 30 seconds or until lightly brown and crisp. Turn over to brown. It should have an irregular lacy shape. Remove and drain on paper towels. Keep in a warm oven. Break into smaller pieces. Makes 2 crispy egg laces. 
Serves:
6
Notes:
null
