Name:
Moroccan Couscous
Type:
Poultry
Country:
Morocco
Author:
Unknown (Internet)
Ingredients:
chicken, 3.5 pound, cut in 6 pieces
butter, 3.5 T
vegetable oil, 1/4 c
onion, 1 large, cut into wedges
plum tomatoes, .5 pound quartered
parsley, 1 c fresh chopped
ginger, 1.5 t ground
black pepper, 1.5 t ground
turmeric, 1 t ground
jalapeno chili, 1 whole
cinnamon stick, .5
cayenne pepper, 1/4 t
saffron threads, 1/8 t crushed
turnips, 5 small, peeled, quartered
carrots, 4 large peeled, quartered lengthwise and crosswise
acorn squash, 1 large peeled, seeded, cut into 2 inch pieces
zucchini, 3 small cut quartered lengthwise then crosswise
garbanzo beans, 16,ounce, canned
water, 2 1/4 c
salt, 1.5 t
couscous, 3 c about 18 ounces
chicken broth, 4 c, canned
Instructions:
Combine chicken and broth in a large Dutch oven. Simmer until chicken is cooked through,turning occasionally, about 20 minutes. Using tongs remove chicken from cooking liquid: reserve cooking liquid.. Skin and bone chicken; cut into bite size pieces. Melt 2 tablespoons of butter with the oil in large heavy Dutch oven over medium-high heat. Add onion,sauté until tender,about 10 minute. Add tomatoes and next 8 ingredients and stir 30 seconds. Mix in reserved cooking liquid, turnips, carrots, squash, zucchini and garbanzo beans with liquid. Cover and simmer until the vegetables are almost tender about 15 minutes. Uncover and cook until vegetables are tender, about 5 minutes. Add chicken pieces to sauce and cook until heated through, about 3 minutes. Discard jalapeno. Meanwhile bring 2 1/4c. Water and 1- 1/2 T butter and salt to boiling. Stir in couscous. Remove from heat, cover and let stand 10 minutes; fluff with fork. Arrange couscous in center of serving platter. Drizzle couscous with 3/4 c sauce. Spoon chicken and vegetables atop couscous. Serve, passing remaining sauce separately.

This is not for the faint of heart, just for those seeking the pleasures of life. Spicy and hot, and you will cook it over and over. If nothing else, we owe Morocco a thank you for this one.


Serves:
6
Notes:
Buy couscous from a Middle Eastern store, or you maybe can buy it at health stores.
