Name:
My Pad Thai
Type:
Cassoroles
Country:
Thailand
Author:
Asian Pasta, by Linda Burum
Ingredients:
3 1/2 tb Distilled white vinegar 
2 tb Water 
2 1/2 tb Fish sauce 
3 tb Tomato paste 
2 1/2 tb Sugar 
1/2 tb Dried shrimp - pounded to a powder 
9 oz Flat rice sticks, 1/8" wide 
Vegetable oil 
1/3 c Fresh sweet basil leaves (Thai or purple basil) 
2 Red Serrano chili peppers seeded & very finely minced 
4 Garlic cloves; minced 
1 1/2 lg Boned chicken breast halves cut crosswise into 3/8 inch thick strips -OR- 
1 lb -Lean pork, cut into thin slices 3/8 inch by 2 inches 
8 oz Small, cooked shelled shrimp 
2 Eggs; lightly beaten 
2 c Fresh bean sprouts beans removed 
1/4 c Roasted, unsalted peanuts coarsely ground 
Cherry tomatoes; halved 
Lime wedges 
Mint sprigs OR- sliced green onions 

Instructions:
Combine the vinegar, water, fish sauce, tomato paste, sugar, and dried shrimp in a small bowl; mix until well blended and reserve. In a large pot, soak the noodles in enough water to cover. In a small skillet or pot, heat vegetable oil 3/4 to 1 inch deep to 350 degrees, or until a dried rice noodle puffs instantly when dropped into the oil. Deep-fry the basil leaves a few at a time, turning them once or twice until they are crisp, or 40 seconds to a minute; drain on paper toweling. 
Bring the noodles to a boil and cook them 2 minutes, or until they are almost tender. Drain and rinse them well, then spread them on paper toweling to dry slightly. Head a wok or large skillet and add about 2 1/2 tablespoons vegetable oil. Fry the Serrano peppers about 30 seconds, then add the garlic and stir-fry until it is soft. Add the chicken or pork and stir-fry until the chicken is almost opaque throughout or the pork is browned. Stir in the shrimp and the sauce and mix completely. Make a well in the center of the mixture and pour in the eggs. When they are almost set, scramble them evenly. Add half the noodles, throughly incorporating them into the mixture; stir in the remaining noodles and half the bean sprouts. Cook just until the bean sprouts are nearly wilted. 
Heap the meat and noodles onto a platter. Cover one half of them with ground peanuts and the other half with uncooked bean sprouts. Ring the noodles with lime wedges, cherry tomatoes, and mint sprigs and garnish the top with the fried basil. 

Serves:
1
Notes:
null
