Name:
Pad Thai Stir-Fried Rice Ribbon Noodles
Type:
Pasta
Country:
Thailand
Author:
Joyce Jue
Ingredients:
6 oz Dried flat rice noodles (see note) 
4 tb Vegetable oil 
1/4 lb Medium shrimp, shelled and deveined 
1 Boneless chicken breast half, skinned, thinly sliced 
3 Garlic cloves, minced 
3 tb Yellow bean sauce 
3 tb Tomato paste 
2 tb Fish sauce 
1 To 2 tablespoons distilled vinegar 
2 tb Sugar 
3 Eggs 
2 tb Chopped preserved radish, soaked in warm water for 
10 Minutes, drained (optional) 
1 tb Small dried shrimp (optional) 
1 Inch cubes fried tofu, cut into 1/2-inch slices (optional) 
Big pinch chile flakes 
2 Handfuls bean sprouts, tailed 
2 To 4 tablespoons chicken broth or water, as needed 
4 Green onions, trimmed, cut into 2-inch lengths 

GARNISHES: 
2 tb Coarsely chopped roasted peanuts 
Chile flakes 
2 tb Coarsely chopped fresh coriander leaves 
2 Limes, cut into wedges 
Instructions:
Place noodles in a bowl and cover with warm water; let soak about 15 minutes, or until soft and pliable. Drain; set aside. 
Set a wok over medium-high heat. When hot, add 2 tablespoons of the oil. Add shrimp and chicken; stir-fry until shrimp turns bright orange and chicken turns white, about 30 seconds. Set aside. 
Reheat wok over medium heat. Add the remaining oil and the garlic; brown gently (about 20 seconds). Increase heat to medium- high. Add the bean sauce, tomato paste, fish sauce, vinegar and sugar; stir until sugar dissolves. 
Increase heat to high. Break 1 of the eggs into the sauce; beat 3 or 4 times. Let cook until egg is slightly set but still moist, about 20 seconds. Repeat with second and third egg. There should be tiny flecks of egg peeking through. 
Add the optional radish, dried shrimp and tofu, the chile flakes, softened noodles and 1 handful of bean sprouts to the hot wok. Toss and lift noodles until tender and no longer stiff, about 3 or 4 minutes. 
Add the chicken broth 2 tablespoons at a time if noodles seem dry, the green onions and the reserved shrimp/chicken mixture; toss for 30 seconds to reheat. The sauce is not a wet sauce; it should "dry-coat" the noodles. 
Transfer to a platter and serve with a sprinkling of chopped peanuts, chile flakes to taste and fresh coriander leaves. Arrange. remaining bean sprouts and lime wedges around noodles. (Squeeze lime over noodles before eating.) Serve warm or at room temperature. 
Note: Traditionally, Pad Thai uses dried, flat Y4-inch-wide fettuccine-like rice-flour noodles, labeled "Chantaboon rice sticks." 

PER SERVING: 490 calories, 20 g protein, 50 g carbohydrate, 21 g fat (3 g saturated), 210 mg cholesterol, 1,258 mg sodium, 3 g fiber. 
Serves:
4
Notes:
null
