Name:
Penne all'arrabbiata
Type:
Pasta
Country:
Italy
Author:
The Mediterranean Diet Cookbook
Ingredients:
1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil
3 large garlic cloves, minced
1 1/2 lb tomatoes, preferably plum tomatoes, peeled and seeded and coarsely chopped,
or
2 14.5 oz (1 28 oz) can imported Italian tomatoes with their juice, chopped
1 or 2 dried hot red chilies, broken into pieces, or 1 t hot red pepper flakes to taste
Salt to taste
1 lb penne or other short thick round pasta
6 quarts water


Instructions:
Heat the oil in a heavy saucepan over medium-high heat and sauté the garlic, stirring constantly, until it is just beginning to turn golden - about 10 minutes.
Add the tomatoes and chilies, reduce the heat to medium-low, and continue cooking until the tomatoes are soft and the sauce is dense but not pureed - about 20 minutes.
Remove from the heat and taste for seasoning, adding more salt if necessary.
Cook the pasta.
Drain thoroughly, turn into a warm serving bowl, and pour the sauce over it.

Serve immediately.

Nutritional Data, per portion
Calories  386    Carbohydrate  62g   Saturated Fat  2g
Protein  11g     Sodium  273g        Monounsaturated Fat  8g
Fat  11g         Cholesterol  0


Serves:
6
Notes:
This pasta along with All'Amatriciana and their variations are favorites in Roman trattorias. All'Amatriciana , with little pieces of cured pork in the sauce, comes from the Abruzzese town of Amatrice. So do many of the hosts of the old Roman trattorias, Osterias, and tavole calde, where Romans take their meals, and so all'amatriciana has become a Roman style of pasta.Penne all'arrabbiata, without the cured pork, simply means "enraged pasta," referring to the heat of the peppers, which are also valuable for restoring flagging energies, see the puttanesca recipe. The popularity of these pastas has benefited considerably from the nostalgie de la boue that from time to time afflicts upper-class Romans, intellectuals, film people, and aristocrats, who frequent working-class eating places at times of the night when the working classes are soundly asleep-a bit like Parisian partygoers slumming for bowls of soupe a` l'oignon at five o'clock in the morning.


