Name:
Raisin Pork Cutlets
Type:
Pork
Country:
USA
Author:
McCall's Cooking School
Ingredients:
1 large egg 
 water 
1/3 cup unsifted all-purpose flour 
2 teaspoons salt 
1 pound pork tenderloin cutlets, 1/8 inch thick 
4 tablespoons butter or margarine 
12 ounce package fresh spinach fettuccine 
2 tablespoons freshly grated Parmesan cheese 
1/3 cup dark seedless raisins 
1 chicken-flavored bouillon cube or 1 envelope chicken-flavored bouillon 
1 tablespoon brown sugar 
1 teaspoon julienne lemon zest 
1/2 cup dry vermouth 
1 tablespoon freshly squeezed lemon juice 
1 tablespoon minced parsley 
2 small acorn squash, sliced and steamed until tender 
 Sauteed Cherry Tomatoes (see Vegetable section of Recipe File) 
1 parsley sprig for garnish 

Instructions:
1. In a pie plate, using a wire whisk or fork, beat egg with 1 tablespoon water until thoroughly blended. Set aside. On a sheet of waxed paper, mix the flour with 1/2 teaspoon salt. Dip one pork cutlet into egg mixture until thoroughly coated; drain off excess.
2. Coat the egg-dipped cutlet thoroughly with flour mixture; shake off excess flour mixture. Place flour-coated cutlet on plate. Repeat with remaining pork cutlets, first dipping each into the egg and then coating with flour mixture.
3. In 12 inch skillet, over medium heat, melt 2 tablespoons of the butter. Add pork cutlets, several at a time, and saute 2 minutes on each side. Place cooked cutlets on a heated serving platter; cover loosely with aluminum foil to keep warm. Repeat until all cutlets are cooked.
4. While cutlets cook, in a large saucepan, over high heat, bring 3 quarts water and remaining 1 1/2 tablespoons salt to boiling. Add fettuccine and cook 3 to 5 minutes or until al dente; that is, cooked but firm to the bite. Drain and toss with remaining butter and the Parmesan cheese. Cover to keep warm.
5. In the skillet used for cooking the cutlets, over medium high heat, bring 1/2 cup water, the raisins, bouillon cube, brown sugar, lemon zest, vermouth, and lemon juice to boiling. Reduce heat to low and cook, stirring constantly, to reduce liquid in skillet to 3/4 cup.
6. Arrange cutlets on warmed serving dish. Top with sauce and sprinkle with minced parsley. Surround with fettuccine and slices of steamed acorn squash. Garnish with Sauteed Cherry Tomatoes and a sprig of parsley.
Serves:
4
Notes:
null
