Name:
Roast Duck with Orange Sauce
Type:
Poultry
Country:
Israel
Author:
Mama Leah's Jewish Kitchen
Ingredients:
Ingredients: 

3 1/2 lb To 4-1/2 lb duck 
1  Orange, peeled 
  Salt 
  Garlic powder 
1/2 c Brown sugar 
1 tb Cornstarch 
1 c Orange juice 
1 tb Orange rind, grated 
1  Lemon's juice 
2 tb Orange liqueur (optional) 
2  Oranges, sliced into rounds 
  Parsley, for garnish 

Instructions:
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F.
Wash the duck, dry it, and make sure to remove any remaining pinfeathers. Pull away and discard any loose pieces of fat. Place the peeled orange inside the cavity. Sprinkle the outside of the duck lightly with salt and garlic powder. Rub the salt and garlic into the skin but do not prick the skin.

Line the bottom of roasting pan with aluminum foil to catch to grease as it melts. Place the duck on a rack in the roasting pan.

Cook in the preheated oven for 1 hour.

In the meantime, in a bowl, mix together the brown sugar and cornstarch. In a saucepan, place the mixture together with the orange juice, orange rind, lemon juice, and the orange liqueur, if desired. Stir well and bring the mixture to a boil. Reduce to a simmer, stirring constantly until the mixture loses its cloudiness and thickens slightly.

Remove the duck from the oven and allow it to cool for 10 to 15 minutes. (Do not turn off the oven.) Split the duck in half using poultry shears or a sharp knife. Remove the breastbone. Once you split the duck, you will find it easy to gently pry the breastbone away from the meat. Drain off any accumulated fat from the roasting pan. Place the duck halves on the rack, skin side up. Brush the duck with the orange sauce and reserve the remaining sauce to serve at the table.

Roast the duck for another 30 to 40 minutes. When done, the skin should be very crisp and browned. Serve the duck surrounded by the orange rounds and garnished with parsley. Pour the warm orange sauce into a gravy bowl and pass around. This duck goes very nicely with any rice dish. Makes 2 to 3 servings.


Serves:
0
Notes:
ADVICE FROM MAMA: For a very fancy variation, in a small saucepan, heat 1/3 cup of orange liqueur. Place the roasted duck halves on a preheated serving platter, decorate, and pour the heated liqueur over the duck. Strike a match and light the liqueur in the bottom of the platter. Carry the duck flambe to the dinning table to a chorus of ooohs and aaahs. For an exotic variation, try mixing together 1/3 cup of honey, 1/3 cup of orange juice, and 1 teaspoon of curry powder. Season the duck to taste as usual. Apply half of the sweet, spicy mixture to the bird. Roast in the preheated oven as above. Periodically baste the duck with remaining mixture. This delicious coating on the duck will have you dreaming of warm nights in Kashmir.


