Name:
Sopa De Grao
Type:
Soups
Country:
Portugal
Author:
JEAN ANDERSON 
Ingredients:
2 1/2 c Dried garbanzos washed and sorted 
2 qt Cold water 
4 md Garlic cloves peeled and minced 
4 lg Yellow onions; peeled and coarsely chopped 
3 tb Peanut, corn or veg. oil 
3 md Maine or Eastern potatoes peeled & coarsely chopped 
1/2 ts Crumbled leaf thyme 
1/2 ts Ground coriander seeds 
1 lg Bay leaf; (do not crumble) 
1 qt Beef or chicken broth (preferably homemade) 
1/2 lb Pepperoni or chorizo or if available, Portuguese chourico or linguica, sliced about 1/4-in thick 
1 c Finely chopped fresh spinach (leaves only) 
1 1/2 ts Salt 
1/4 ts Freshly ground black pepper 
2 tb Olive oil 
Instructions:
SOAK THE GARBANZOS overnight in 6 cups of the water in a large heavy kettle. Next day, add the remaining 2 cups water, bring to a gentle boil, cover, and cook 4-to-5 hours or until the garbanzos are very tender. Meanwhile, stir-fry the garlic and onions in the peanut oil in a second large, heavy kettle over moderate heat for 12-to-15 minutes until lightly browned. Add the potatoes and stir-fry 2-to-3 minutes; add the thyme, coriander, and bay leaf, turn the heat down low, and allow to mellow about 10 minutes. Pour in the broth, bring all to a gentle simmer, cover and cook slowly. As soon as you've set the 2 kettles to simmer, stir-fry the pepperoni in a large heavy skillet 3-to-5 minutes--just until lightly browned and most of the drippings have cooked out. Drain the pepperoni well, reserving 1 tablespoon of the drippings. Set aside. Return 1 tablespoon drippings to the skillet, add the spinach and stir-fry 2-to-3 minutes over moderate heat just until glazed and intensely green; reserve. When the garbanzos are tender, puree 1/2 of them by buzzing 60 seconds in a food processor, adding only enough kettle liquid to puree them easily. Return the pureed garbanzos to the kettle in which they cooked. Now puree the potato mixture in 2 batches, buzzing each 30-to-40 seconds in a food processor. Blend the potato mixture into the garbanzo mixture, add the reserved pepperoni and spinach, cover, and simmer 30-to-40 minutes--just long enough to mellow the flavors. Season to taste with salt and pepper, remove the bay leaf, then smooth in the olive oil. 
Serves:
6
Notes:
null
