Name:
Thai Fried Noodles 2
Type:
Pasta
Country:
Thailand
Author:
stigle@cs.unca.edu (Sue Stigleman) 
Ingredients:
Asian rice noodles - cut about 1/8 inch wide, OR- 
1 lb Flat rice noodles - (fresh or dried) 
3/4 c Fish sauce; -OR- 
6 tb -Soy sauce 
4 ts Rice wine vinegar OR- distilled white vinegar 
2 tb Sugar 
4 ts High-quality paprika; -OR- 
1/4 c -Catsup or Tomato paste 
1/2 c Vegetable oil OR more if needed 
8 oz Boneless pork OR- boned & skinned chicken cut into very small pieces 
2 tb Minced or pressed garlic 
2 ts Ground dried red hot chili, OR- 
1 tb Minced fresh hot chile 
4 Eggs; lightly beaten 
8 oz Medium-sized shrimp - shelled and deveined, - tails left intact 
10 oz Fresh bean sprouts 
3 Green onions; thinly sliced 
1/2 c Chopped dry-roasted peanuts - (unsalted) 
1/4 c Chopped fresh cilantro 

FOR GARNISH: 
Finely minced dried shrimp 
Fresh cilantro sprigs 
Lemon or lime wedges 
Instructions:
In a bowl, cover the noodles in lukewarm water and let stand to soften, about 15 minutes for fresh noodles or about 30 minutes for dry noodles. Drain and cut into 6-inch lengths, if desired. Set aside. 
In a small bowl, combine the fish sauce, vinegar, sugar, and paprika, catsup, or tomato paste. Set aside. 
Heat a wok or saute pan over high heat. Add the oil and swirl to coat the pan. Add the pork or chicken, garlic, and chili and stir-fry for 1 minute. Stir in the drained noodles and the reserved fish sauce mixture and stir-fry about 30 seconds. Push the noodles to one side, pour in about a tablespoon more oil, if necessary, and add the eggs; cook just until slightly set, then break them up. Add the shrimp and stir-fry just until they turn pink. Add most of the bean sprouts, the green onion, and 1/4 cup of the peanuts and stir-fry until the sprouts and onions are crisp-tender, 1 to 2 minutes. Remove from the heat and transfer to a serving plate. 
Sprinkle with the chopped cilantro, remaining 1/4 cup peanuts, and dried shrimp. Garnish with the remaining bean sprouts, cilantro sprigs, and lemon or lime wedges, and serve immediately. Diners squeeze lemon or lime juice to taste. 
Serves:
4
Notes:
null
