Name:
The Globe's berry shortcake
Type:
Cakes
Country:
USA
Author:
http://recipes.chatelaine.com/
Ingredients:
5 cups ( 1.25 L) all-purpose flour 
2/3 cup ( 150 mL) granulated sugar 
2 tbsp ( 30 mL) baking powder 
1-1/2 tsp ( 7 mL) salt 
3/4 cup ( 175 mL) vegetable shortening 
2 cups ( 500 mL) buttermilk or sour milk (see tip, below) 
2 L ( 2 quarts) strawberries or other fresh berries, such as blackberries, raspberries or blueberries 
whipped cream (optional) 
mint for garnish (optional) 

Instructions:
1. Preheat oven to 375F (190C). (This oven temperature is lower than we usually use for biscuits, but gave the best results.) Measure flour, sugar, baking powder and salt into a large mixing bowl. Stir with a fork until blended. Then, using a pastry blender or two knives, cut shortening into flour mixture until mealy. Make a well in centre and pour in buttermilk or sour milk. Stir just until dry ingredients are moistened. Do not over-mix or biscuits will be tough. 

2. Turn dough out onto a lightly floured surface. If using sour milk, heavily flour surface because dough will be sticky. Using lightly floured hands, form dough into a ball, then flatten top. Fold dough in half using a kneading motion. Turn dough and repeat 3 or 4 times. Then, roll with a rolling pin or pat gently with your hand until about 1-1/2 inches (3.5 cm) thick. Cut out biscuits with a 2-1/2-inch- (6-cm-) wide heart-shaped or round cookie cutter. Gather scraps, gently pat out again to 1-1/2 inch (3.5 cm) thickness and cut additional shapes. If you like a sparkling sugar top, lightly brush each biscuit top with milk. Then, sprinkle with a little additional coarse or granulated sugar. Place on ungreased baking sheets. Immediately bake in centre of 375 F (190 C) oven until lightly golden, about 23 to 25 minutes. Using a spatula, transfer biscuits to a cooling rack. 

3. Meanwhile, wash berries under cold running water and drain. Remove hulls and thickly slice. Split biscuits in half, horizontally, preferably while warm. Fill with berries and a large dab of whipped cream. Garnish with a sprig of mint and additional berries. 

Nutrients per serving 
4.9 g protein, 1.7 mg iron, 9.1 g fat, 86.0 mg calcium, 40.5 g carbohydrates, 262.0 calories. 
Serves:
18
Notes:
Local residents such as the Hinds and day-trippers alike stop at the Globe Restaurant in Rosemont, Ont., for heart-shaped shortcake stuffed with luscious local berries and real whipped cream. Owners David McCracken and Bethany Hunt bake the biscuits daily and softly whip cream by hand
 
